hello my name is corporal Crumpler with
the Hillsborough County Sheriff's Office
economic crime section today I would
like to speak to you about identity
theft and some common methods criminals
utilized to steal others identities and
what to do if you find yourself a victim
of identity theft with the increase of
readily available personal information
identity theft is rapidly increasing and
continues to affect more people every
year it is almost impossible to
completely prevent identity theft
however there are ways you can make
yourself a more difficult target and
less susceptible to having your identity
compromised here are some of the ways to
minimize your risk of becoming a bigger
protect your social security number
never carry your Social Security card in
your wallet or write your social
security number on a check keep your
social security card in a safe and
secure place try to avoid giving your
social security number to anyone unless
absolutely necessary seek other proofs
of identification when necessary treat
your mail and trash carefully place all
outgoing mail in a post office
collection box or at a local post office
rather than putting the flag up on your
unsecured home mailbox also promptly
remove all mail from your mailbox
identity thieves commonly pick through
trash or recycling bins to capture
personal information always shred your
personal paperwork like charger seats
checks and bank statements you are
discarding don't forget those
credit-card offers commonly received in
the mail as well to opt out of receiving
prescreened offers of credit in the mail
call 1 888 50 L that is 1 888 5 6 7 8
688 you will be asked to provide your
social security number which the
consumer reporting companies need to
associate with your file
internet fraud and phishing scams
internet identity thieves will
impersonate a trusted business in an
attempt to trick you into giving out
your personal information this is called
phishing and used by these criminals to
get your personal information and to
steal your identity never reply to an
email a text or a message that asks for
your personal information your bank or
business already has that information
and will never ask for it or ask you to
confirm that information with them
closely monitor all your bank accounts
daily monitor all bank accounts for
fraudulent activity the sooner you
detect suspicious activity on your
account immediately notify your
financial institution and credit bureaus
work with your financial institution and
inform them when you may be going out of
town or on vacation most financial
institutions will be alerted when
transactions occur outside the normal
spending area of the account holder
therefore to avoid a fraud alert inform
your financial institution if your
credit card will be used outside your
home area
you
these are the most common ways identity
theft occurs so what can you do to
determine if you are a victim or your
personal information has been
compromised early detection of identity
theft can make a significant difference
in minimizing the amount of loss and or
possibly identifying a suspect be
observant of any suspicious activity by
routinely monitoring your financial
statements and billing records for
charges you did not make credit reports
contain your personal information
including what accounts you have and how
you pay your bills if fraudulent
accounts are being opened in your name
these accounts are likely to show up on
your credit report Florida law requires
each of the three major consumer
reporting agencies to provide you with a
free copy of your credit report at your
request once every 12 months to order
your free annual report from one or all
the three national consumer reporting
companies visit wwan ewell credit report
com or call toll free 877 32 282 2-8
if you determine your identity and
personal information has been used by
someone else what should you do obtain
all applicable documentation such as a
copy of the bill check credit report or
any other documents that support your
personal information has been used by
someone else contact the issuing
business or financial institution where
your identity was used to close accounts
or credit cards and obtain additional
information report the identity theft to
the three main credit bureaus experian
transunion and Equifax and place a fraud
alert with the credit bureaus attempt to
identify the specific location where
your personal information was used this
is important in determining in what
jurisdiction the actual crime was
committed report the crime to the law
enforcement agency where the crime
occurred or if I known the agency where
you live please pass these informational
tips and or a link to this video to your
family and friends we need and welcome
your assistance in combating identity
theft and preventing others from
becoming just another victim of this
crime
you